1-BOWL GINGER COOKIES (V/GF) PERFECT Tender Spicy Vegan GF Ginger Cookies 1 bowl required! #vegan #glutenfree #cookie #recipe True story: I was photographing these while our UPS guy was dropping off a package and he said, “Wow, those look good.” So I offered him one, and the next day he said, “Those cookies were BOMB.” That just about sums it up. DELICIOUS, Tender Spicy Vegan GF Ginger Cookies 1 bowl required! #vegan #glutenfree #cookie #recipe These cookies are a play on my Fluffy 1-Bowl Vegan Gluten Free Sugar Cookies and require just 1 bowl to make! To get that quintessential warm holiday spice, they’re infused with cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, and molasses. Mmm. Once mixed and chilled for 30 minutes, roll into balls, dip in cinnamon-sugar (my favorite childhood condiment), and bake to perfection. Then drizzle (or don’t, but do) with my simple 2-ingredient powdered sugar frosting. Tender Spicy Vegan GF Ginger Cookies made in 1 Bowl! #vegan #glutenfree #cookie #recipe I hope you all LOVE these cookies! They’re: Tender Perfectly spiced Not too sweet Easy to make & Seriously delicious These would make the perfect treat to have on hand during the holidays and would even make great gifts, as they hold their shape nicely and would package well. If you try this recipe, let us know! Leave a comment, rate it, and don’t forget to tag a photo #minimalistbaker on Instagram so we can see. Cheers and happy baking, friends! DELICIOUS, Tender Spicy Vegan GF Ginger Cookies 1 bowl required! #vegan #glutenfree #cookie #recipe 4.6 from 13 reviews 1 BOWL GINGER COOKIES (V/GF) PRINT FRIENDLY VERSION Prep time 45 mins Cook time 12 mins Total time 57 mins Tender, spicy, perfectly sweet ginger cookies made entirely in 1 bowl! The perfect vegan, gluten free cookie for your holiday spread. Author: Minimalist Baker Recipe type: Dessert Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free Serves: 15 Ingredients COOKIES 1/2 cup (1 stick or 112 g) softened vegan butter* (I like Earth Balance buttery sticks) 2/3 cup (133 g) organic cane sugar*, plus more for rolling 3 Tbsp (45 ml) chickpea brine* (the liquid from a can of cooked chickpeas, aka aquafaba) 3 Tbsp (60 g) molasses 3/4 tsp baking powder 1 tsp ground cinnamon, plus more for rolling 3/4 tsp ginger 1/4 tsp nutmeg 1/4 tsp sea salt 1 2/3 cups (266 g) gluten free flour blend* 2/3 cup (75 g) almond flour 1/3 cup (42 g) cornstarch (I didn't test it with arrowroot but think it would work the same) GLAZE optional 1 cup (128 g) powdered sugar 1-2 Tbsp (15-30 ml) unsweetened dairy-free milk Instructions Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 C) and line two baking sheets with parchment paper. Set aside. Prepare the topping for later by adding 2-3 Tbsp organic cane sugar and 1/2 tsp cinnamon to a small bowl and mixing. Set aside. Add softened vegan butter to a large mixing bowl and beat until creamy and smooth - about 1 minute. Add sugar and mix on medium speed until fluffy and light - about 1 minute. Then add chickpea brine (or other egg substitutes*) and molasses and mix again, scraping down sides as needed. Add baking powder, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, and sea salt and blend to combine. Then add gluten free flour blend, almond flour, and cornstarch and mix on low until the ingredients are combined. The dough should be thick and almost difficult to mix at this point. If too soft, continue adding 1 Tbsp each gluten free flour blend, almond flour, and cornstarch until a thick, moldable dough is formed. Then transfer dough to the refrigerator and chill for 30 minutes*. Use a cookie scooper (I likethis one) or Tablespoon to measure out 1 1/2 Tbsp amounts of dough and gently roll into balls - the dough will still be soft so be gentle. Then carefully roll in the cinnamon-sugar topping and arrange on the parchment-lined baking sheets. Press down gently with the palm of your hand or a drinking glass to smash until about the thickness you want to enjoy them at. They won't spread or rise much so keep that in mind. Bake for 10-11 minutes or until the cookies appear fluffy and the edges are slightly beginning to dry out. Let cool on baking sheet for 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. If frosting, whisk together the powdered sugar and almond milk until a thick, pourable glaze is achieved. Then drizzle over the cookies. See notes if hoping to roll out and cut into shapes. Storage: Once cooled, store leftover cookies covered at room temperature for 3-4 days, or in the freezer up to 1 month. Notes *I tried a similar recipe with softened coconut oil and didn't have the best results. But if looking to avoid vegan butter it's worth a shot! *If you’d like to cut back on sugar, sub 1/3 cup of the sugar with 1 packet (~3/4 tsp) stevia extract (I like Trader Joe’s brand). This will make the cookies softer, so you may need to add more gluten free flour, almond flour, and/or cornstarch to help thicken the dough. *The chickpea brine substitutes an egg in this recipe. In its place, you can also try subbing 1/4 cup pumpkin puree, 1 egg replacer, or 1 small chicken egg if not vegan. I haven’t tested it with a flax egg or any of the other substitutes and can’t guarantee the results. *If not gluten free, sub the almond flour and gluten free flour blend with unbleached all purpose flour. If avoiding nuts, you can try subbing the almond flour with a blend of gluten free flour blend and cornstarch. I haven't tried this recipe with arrowroot starch, but I believe it can be subbed for cornstarch and work the same. *You can make the cookie dough ahead of time and refrigerate up to 2-3 days in advance. Simply let the dough rest at room temperature for 30 minutes before scooping and baking. It should be soft and moldable. *I did not test this recipe rolling the cookies out and making them into shapes. But I believe it's possible! Use my 1 Bowl Vegan Gluten Free Sugar Cookies recipe as a guide.