It’s no secret that Gail Simmons loves food. The Top Chef judge regularly tries new dishes on the hit reality show, and she even wrote a memoir about her culinary obsession. Now, she’s sharing what she eats in a normal day in a new interview, and it’s probably more low-key than you’d expect for someone who samples foie gras ice cream on TV. Simmons tells People that a typical day for her starts with a slice of Ezekiel sprouted grain toast with ¼ of an avocado mashed with lemon, salt, and a pinch of chili flakes, and a hardboiled egg. For lunch, she’ll have a chopped spinach salad with grilled chicken, tomatoes, roasted red peppers, cucumbers, olives, artichokes, and shaved Parmesan, dressed with red-wine vinegar and extra-virgin olive oil. A snack may consist of a few olives, some carrots with hummus, and a handful of wasabi sunflower seeds. For dinner, she’ll have brown rice with roasted delicata squash, roasted carrots, chickpeas, and chives with lemon-tahini dressing. And for dessert, she’ll nosh on a small apple, a few pieces of dried mango, and soft black licorice. Despite the healthiness of her meals, Simmons says she’s not super strict with what she eats. While she tries to avoid fast and packaged foods in favor of whole ingredients, she’s not obsessive about calorie counts. “I don’t watch my calories or stick to any diet at every meal,” Simmons says. “I just generally try to eat a variety of foods throughout every day—heavy on veggies and fruit, whole grains, and protein, especially when I’m not traveling or eating for work and can cook at home.” She adds: “Life’s too short to spend all your time thinking about what you can’t or shouldn’t enjoy.” Alissa Rumsey, M.S., R.D., a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, tells SELF that she recommends this mindset toward eating to her clients, and it’s how she eats, too. “Eating a variety of foods each day, focusing on whole foods like vegetables, whole grains, fruit, and lean protein is a great way to eat a healthy diet,” she says. “By eating mostly whole, real foods, you are more likely to not overdo it on the calories, sugar, and sodium.” Lisa Moskovitz, R.D., CEO of NY Nutrition Group, tells SELF that this is a smart way to approach nutrition. “A lot of times when people get caught up in a strict plan or calorie counting, they forget how to trust their bodies and listen to intuitive and biological hunger cues,” she says. “Some structure is important, but too much can affect your relationship with food.” New York-based R.D. Jessica Cording, agrees. “For some people, this works even better than counting calories,” she says, noting that a lot of her clients can easily get stressed out or overthink things when they count calories. Throwing calorie-counting out of the equation “definitely helps with anxiety,” Cording says. Also, Karen Ansel, M.S., R.D.N., author of Healing Superfoods for Anti-Aging: Stay Younger, Live Longer, tells SELF that counting calories every single day isn’t practical or realistic. “We can’t always know how many calories are in every single food,” she says. “Plus, we don’t burn the same amount of calories every day, so feeding your body the same fixed amount every day may deliver too much energy on days you’re sedentary and not enough energy on days you’re active.” Instead, Ansel says it’s better to be “calorie-aware,” meaning you have a rough idea of the number of calories you need each day and can pick and choose foods wisely to meet that need—without obsessing over exact numbers. So, if you have a hard workout on one day, you know you probably need a little more fuel than a day where you didn’t exercise at all, and you plan to eat accordingly. If you're not calorie-aware, there's a major potential pitfall to this lifestyle: Moskovitz points out that you can be completely oblivious when you’re eating more calories than you need. “Some foods you normally eat may contain way more, or even fewer, calories than you thought,” she says. Take avocado, which Simmons includes in her breakfast. Healthy fats are important because fat helps make food more delicious and fill you up, so you’re setting yourself up for success, Ansel says. However, they can pack a caloric punch, so it's key to keep an eye on portion size (and the calories in any food can add up if you eat too much). Overall, Cording says she finds that Simmons' approach works for a lot of people. “Think about the different food groups you're having and the balance that feels good for you,” she says. “It gives you a little more leeway with your diet.”