To combat this pattern, flexible dieting reflects real life—there’s no need to feel guilty if you indulge here and there since it’s considered part of the overall diet plan. “Then, if you fall off track, you won’t quit the diet completely,” Warren says. “Instead, you are more likely to keep moving forward.” Alissa Rumsey, M.S. R.D., C.S.C.S., a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, tells SELF that flexible diets just make sense. "No one wants to have their diet restricted," she says. "Whenever people follow restricted diets, they inevitably come off those diets because they miss their favorite foods. Having a flexible diet can mean that you don't need to cut out your favorite foods and can help to ensure that it is a way of eating you can have for life." While this all sounds good in theory and definitely works for some people, being too flexible with your diet can be a slippery slope depending on your level of self-control with food. Some people may become too lenient, end up eating too much unhealthy food, and have a harder time reaching their weight or fitness goals as a result. “Although it’s nice to have a mentality of flexibility while being on the diet, it still has to be mindful and controlled,” Warren notes. Knowing how to go about eating everything in moderation is tough for some people, Cording says. That’s why she says it may be beneficial to follow an 80/20 plan, where you eat healthy, good-for-you foods 80 percent of the time and less healthy foods the other 20 percent of the time. Rumsey calls the 80/20 rule "a good starting point," since it offers some structure along with a fair amount of flexibility. "Applied to the number of meals in a week, assuming three meals per day, seven days per week, this would mean that four of your meals can be more indulgent," she says. However, just like flexible dieting, the 80/20 plan might not be for everyone. “Some people may find that they still need to set some [more] structure for themselves, such as one treat per day or week, or that savory treats are manageable to balance but perhaps they’re best off avoiding sugar,” Cording says. Warren agrees, adding that she always recommends clients treat themselves once a week, with a treat being anything outside of their eating plan, like French fries or ice cream. “It’s actually a mandatory part of my diet plans,” she says. By mindfully treating yourself once per week, you're incorporating indulging without letting it spiral out of control, she explains. Keatley also recommends pairing indulgences with more healthful items that have fiber or protein to help slow digestion and prevent blood sugar spikes and crashes. She also recommends dressing up your indulgences so they feel more special: "If you want some ice cream, don't eat out of the carton—make it special, put it in a bowl, and cover it with some frozen fruit you've warmed in the microwave." If you know that you want to try a flexible diet but are struggling with how to actually implement it, Cording says it can help to seek guidance from a registered dietitian. They can help you come up with a plan that fits your unique needs so that you’ll have more success in the long run—and the right flexibility for you.“Whatever it is, you’re the expert on you, so be honest with yourself about what is and isn’t realistic, and honor that,” Cording says.