Chelsea don t have a weakness in their squad, says Danny Murphy From the sectionFootball Share this page Diego Costa and Antonio Conte Diego Costa has scored 13 Premier League goals to take Antonio Conte Chelsea top of the table Chelsea look like a team without a weakness following their 11th successive Premier League victory, says Match of the Day analyst Danny Murphy. Diego Costa scored his 13th league goal of the season as the leaders won 1-0 at Crystal Palace on Saturday to move nine points clear at the top. I can t see one area in their team where they re struggling at the moment, Murphy said. It fantastic for Chelsea supporters and worrying for everyone else. Chelsea lead will be reduced by the end of the weekend, with third-placed Arsenal at Manchester City, in fourth, on Sunday and second-placed Liverpool contesting the Merseyside derby on Monday. But with back-to-back home games to come against Bournemouth on Boxing Day and Stoke on 31 December, Antonio Conte men are well placed to enter the New Year with a commanding advantage. They ve got two home games coming up which they d expect to win and that would really give them a lead, said former England midfielder Murphy. If they can keep everyone fit, they re the favourites. Jermaine Jenas, another former England midfielder, said Chelsea were out-and-out favourites for the title. Speaking on Match of the Day, he said: Teams are trying. Liverpool are probably the favourites to catch them but they have defensive issues. Conte finds  right fit  after slow start Chelsea latest win came a year to the day after they sacked former boss Jose Mourinho, when the club were 16th. The Blues have won every league game since changing their formation after losing 3-0 at Arsenal on 24 September - and have now equalled a club record with their 11th straight Premier League win. That defeat by Arsenal left the Blues eighth in the table, before Conte changed their system from four defenders to a back three with Marcos Alonso and Victor Moses playing as attacking wing-backs. The manager must be a tailor and try and find the right fit for the team, said Conte. I tried a different solution before changing the formation, but the most important thing is our strong mentality. It wasn t easy to arrive and quickly understand the characteristics of my players. I needed a bit of time. We touched different aspects to try and improve. You can bring your idea of football but if you don t have players who follow you, it doesn t matter. Conte happy but warns Chelsea can improve Following Mourinho sacking, seven months after Chelsea had won their fourth Premier League title, Guus Hiddink took charge until the end of the season and led the club to 10th. Conte took over in July and the 11th successive victory matched the club effort from April to September 2009, although Arsenal hold the Premier League record with a 14-game winning run in 2002. The run is fantastic. Congratulations to my players, not me. I am pleased because they deserve this, added the Italian. But it is important to understand we re only at the 17th game. We must not look at the table, or at our rivals, we have to continue working hard ourselves. Longest winning runs in the Premier League Number of wins Team Date of last game 14 Arsenal 18 August 2002 12 Manchester United 20 August 2000 11 Manchester United 4 March 2009 11 Chelsea 20 September 2009 11 Liverpool 20 April 2014 11 Manchester City 12 September 2015 11 Chelsea 17 December 2016 (run ongoing) BBC Sports Personality 2016: Michael Phelps to be given lifetime achievement award From the sectionSports Personality Share this page Michael Phelps BBC Sports Personality of the Year 2016 Date: Sunday, 18 December Time: From 18:40 GMT Venue: Genting Arena, Birmingham Coverage: BBC One, BBC Radio 5 live, BBC Sport website Record-breaking swimmer Michael Phelps will be honoured with the lifetime achievement award at Sunday BBC Sports Personality show. The American, 31, won his 23rd Olympic gold in his final Games in Rio. The most decorated Olympian of all time, he claimed five golds and a silver this year. He joins a star-studded list of previous lifetime award winners also including former footballer Pele and ex-golfer Seve Ballesteros. Gold for Phelps in Olympic swansong as Britain take silver I m thrilled to receive the prestigious Sports Personality lifetime achievement award and follow in the footsteps of so many sporting greats, said Phelps. It is a fitting way to end what has been an unbelievable year for me and I m looking forward to what will be a great night. Phelps came out of retirement to compete in Rio, his fifth Olympics, and won golds in the 200m butterfly, 200m medley, 4x100m freestyle, 4x200m freestyle and 4x100m medley. He has amassed 28 medals since making his Games debut in 2000. That is 10 more than the next best - gymnast Larisa Latynina, who competed for the Soviet Union between 1956 and 1964, winning 18 medals, nine of them gold. The lifetime award is one of several prizes to be awarded during the Sports Personality programme, which will be broadcast live from the Genting Arena in Birmingham. A public vote on the night decides the winner of the main award, with 16 contenders on the shortlist. Recent lifetime award winners 2015: Sir Anthony McCoy (horse racing) 2011: Sir Steve Redgrave (rowing) 2014: Sir Chris Hoy (cycling) 2010: David Beckham (football) 2013: Sir Alex Ferguson (football) 2009: Seve Ballesteros (golf) 2012: Lord Coe (athletics) 2008: Sir Bobby Charlton (football) King George VI Chase: Coneygree ruled out of Boxing Day meeting 2 hours ago From the sectionHorse Racing Share this page Coneygree Coneygree won the Cheltenham Gold Cup as a novice in 2015 Coneygree will miss the King George VI Chase at Kempton on Boxing Day. The 2015 Cheltenham Gold Cup winner, who returned from a year off the track last month to finish second to Cue Card in the Betfair Chase at Haydock, is said to be fragile and not himself . The Mark Bradstock-trained gelding underperformed in a gallop on Saturday. Bradstock wife and assistant Sara said: I know every breath he takes, every step he takes, I know exactly how he is and he just not feeling good. Bradstock said on Twitter that next year Gold Cup remains the priority for Coneygree.