No Guts, No Glory: Send a video of your FA Cup story from the fans  perspective From the sectionFootball Share this page Manchester United players celebrate winning the 2016 FA Cup final Manchester United won the 2016 FA Cup - the 12th time they have lifted the famous trophy Has your team overcome adversity to make it through to the next round of the FA Cup? Or won in the dying seconds? We re looking for people who are passionate about the game to send us a short video that tells the story of the FA Cup from the fans  perspective. It could be Steven Gerrard never-say-die approach in the 2006 final, Ben Watson last-minute winner for Wigan in 2013 or simply your away-day journeys around the country. It up to you. All we ask is that it no longer than 20 seconds in duration and explains what your story is and why you should be chosen to collaborate with the BBC and other online football personalities on our No Guts, No Glory campaign. To enter simply email a link to your video or send a file to facup@bbc.co.uk and include your name and the club you support in the title, along with a contact number in the body of the email. Alternatively, you can share your video with us on social media using #nogutsnoglory. If you re under the age of 13 you can only submit a video using our Match of the Day Kickabout uploader, which you can find here. For those of you between the ages of 13 and 15 we ll need to see consent from a parental guardian when sending us a video via email. To do this please include the name of your guardian along with a phone number. Tiger Woods commits to playing at the Genesis Open in 2017 From the sectionGolf Share this page Tiger Woods Tiger Woods is four behind Jack Nicklaus  all-time record of 18 major titles Tiger Woods has committed to his first event of 2017 by agreeing to play in the Genesis Open in February at the Riviera Country Club in Los Angeles. This is where it all started for me [in 1992]. It was my first PGA Tour event. I was 16; it was life changing, said the 14-time major winner. Woods, who will also host the event, has not played in it since 2006. The 40-year-old finished 15th at the Hero World Challenge earlier this month after 15 months out through injury.