Sir Dave Brailsford: Team Sky chief to answer MPs  questions at select committee 2 hours ago From the sectionCycling Share this page Sir Dave Brailsford Brailsford says Team Sky are reviewing their policies about the disclosure of a rider TUEs Team Sky chief Sir Dave Brailsford will appear on Monday in front of a Culture, Media and Sport select committee on sport fight against doping. MPs are expected to ask him about British cyclist Sir Bradley Wiggins  therapeutic use exemptions (TUEs). They allow the use of banned substances if athletes have genuine medical need. Brailsford is also expected to be asked about an allegation in the Daily Mail about a medical package delivered to Team Sky in France in June 2011. He has previously refused to comment on the contents of the alleged delivery, said to have been made on the day Wiggins won the Criterium du Dauphine in La Toussuire. Team Sky have said they conducted an internal review and were confident there has been no wrongdoing . Brailsford will be one of six witnesses - along with British Cycling technical director and Team Sky coach Shane Sutton, and World Anti-Doping Agency president Sir Craig Reedie - appearing at the hearing. Wiggins: No unfair advantage from drug Brailsford: Team Sky  do not cross the line  Ex-Team Sky rider questions TUE stance Ukad investigating cycling wrongdoing Sports minister Tracey Crouch told BBC 5 live Sportsweek programme she would be watching with great interest . He will be asked some extremely important questions and he will have to justify himself and his actions, and it not for me as sports minister to say otherwise, said Crouch. Wiggins, a five-time Olympic champion, was granted a TUE to take anti-inflammatory drug triamcinolone before the 2011 Tour de France, his 2012 Tour win and the 2013 Giro d Italia. His use of the drug, which treats allergies and respiratory issues, was released by Russian computer hackers known as Fancy Bears. Wiggins  TUEs were approved by British authorities and cycling world governing body the UCI, and there is no suggestion either the 36-year-old or former employers Team Sky have broken any rules. Former Team Sky cyclist Jonathan Tiernan-Locke has said painkiller Tramadol was freely offered when he was riding for Great Britain at the 2012 World Championships. British Cycling, the national governing body, put the allegation to the medic in question, doctor Richard Freeman, on the BBC behalf. He denied it. UK Anti-Doping says it is investigating allegations of wrongdoing in cycling. Bernard Hopkins beaten by TKO in final fight of career 9 hours ago From the sectionBoxing Share this page Bernard Hopkins (right) in action against Joe Smith Jr Hopkins (right) made his pro debut before 27-year-old Joe Smith Jr was born Bernard Hopkins suffered defeat in his final fight after the 51-year-old was knocked out of the ring in the eighth round by Joe Smith Jr. A flurry of punches sent Hopkins through the ropes and, after he failed to return to the ring in 20 seconds, he was beaten by technical knockout. Hopkins said he was shoved and hit his head in his fall in the light heavyweight bout. He added he twisted his ankle and couldn t stand up . Hopkins confirmed the fight would be the last of his 28-year career, which he ended with a record of 55 wins (32 KOs), eight defeats, and two draws. The former two-weight world champion defended his world middleweight title 20 times between 1995 and 2005 and is the oldest man to hold a world title, aged 49. The American had never been beaten inside the distance before his defeat by compatriot Smith Jr in his first fight since losing on points to Russia Sergey Kovalev two years ago.  Genius  Hopkins lauded by De la Hoya Smith was ahead on points on two of the judges  scorecards before he ended the fight with a series of punches which culminated in a left hook that sent Hopkins through the ropes in Los Angeles. I ve seen him fall and I kept hitting him, Smith, 27, said. I landed that left hook at the end there to finish the job. I hit him with four or five clean shots there, good shots right on the button. I didn t expect him to get up but he is a true champion. I came here to do my job. This is my coming out party. I had to finish him. Meanwhile, Ukraine Oleksandr Usyk, the 2012 Olympic heavyweight gold medallist, defended his WBO cruiserweight title with a knockout of South African Thabiso Mchunu in the ninth round.