Jose Mourinho: Manchester United manager tells players to give fans their shirts From the sectionFootball Share this page Marcus Rashford Striker Marcus Rashford was mobbed by fans after going over to give his shirt Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho says he instructed his players to give their shirts to the travelling supporters after victory at West Brom. Captain Wayne Rooney, midfielder Paul Pogba and striker Marcus Rashford all took their shirts off and went over to the away fans at the final whistle. I told them to do that. It is Christmas time, said Mourinho. Two goals from Zlatan Ibrahimovic gave the Red Devils a 2-0 Premier League win against Albion at The Hawthorns. Match report: West Brom 0-2 Man Utd Relive Man Utd win over West Brom It took the Swede tally to 11 for the season in the Premier League, with only Dutchman Ruud van Nistelrooy (12) scoring more in his first 16 league games for the club. United are unbeaten in their past 10 games in all competitions and next face Sunderland on Boxing Day. Manchester United fans This lucky Manchester United fan was given an early Christmas present Mourinho added: A shirt for a fan coming directly from the game with sweat means a lot. It is a pity that not everyone can get one but for the ones that can get it, it is a great feeling. For them [the players], it is just one more shirt. They will arrive in the dressing room and give it to the kitman, to a friend or change with a West Brom friend. Wayne Rooney Captain Wayne Rooney was one of the players to hand over his shirt Paul Pogba Midfielder Paul Pogba applauded the crowd after giving his shirt to a supporter Meanwhile, Watford sent a Christmas card to five-year-old Sunderland supporter Bradley Lowery, who is terminally ill. After leading out his heroes at the Stadium of Light against Chelsea on Wednesday night, he has subsequently received 28,000 Christmas cards. Troy Deeney and Jermain Defoe And Yeovil manager Darren Way and his players put £300 behind the bar for supporters who made the 660-mile round trip to Carlisle so they could enjoy a pie and a pint. Yeovil fan